"The Delay" is a five-part web-comic series about the lives of four characters who each navigate reality differently. You will be rewarded for your curiosity and patience as you read. Use the left and right keys to navigate between each panel. Use the up and down keys to scroll up or down through the pages.
Nour has the same dream every night. She does not know when they began, only that when she was eight, she realized other kids had dreams that were different from their previous nights while hers remained the same.
For this reason, she believes she has special access. To what? Not even Nour knows.
The dream always begins with silence. It's the neighborhood she grew up in. Her mother, whom she recognizes only from photographs, emerges from behind a facade.
Her mother's bare feet
Sticking to the surface below her
Each step soft yet enunciated by the single, vibrating solicitation
It's always the same place in which her mother suddenly stops, kneels down, and places the most disturbing object in between them. Nour has never encountered such an object in her waking life
It was as strong as a solid yet had an absolute animation around its edges. It shimmered like fluid and somehow she knew that it would shimmer even without light. But it was the smell which Nour was possessed with. The object emitted a smell that was the only thing that would change night to night, dream to dream. 
She knew this object held answers to every question she never asked. The kind of questions that words had no warrant to embody.
That is why before Nour could ever utter from curiosity, she would wake. The stench freshly clinging in her memory. 
There were times it smelled of gasoline and other times of fresh bread.
Opening her journal, she dated the page and began writing: January 9 oranges
Nour started cataloging her dream smells five years ago on her 18th birthday. Her friend had gifted her a journal. Inside the cover, her friend left also a message
Nour found the thought of her repeating dream penetrating her waking life terrifying. But she enjoyed collecting the smells into words on the pages. She imagined she was pulling the smell away from such an unknown reoccurence to something contained and conceivable as a word. Not just any word, but words with relatable, distinguishable smells that had a place in reality.
Nour has never once shared her dream to anyone, not even her grandmother, Sang. 
Nour has never once shared her dream to anyone, not even her grandmother, Sang. 
Sang took care of Nour from birth. Nour's mother was a scholar who took with her her books and left behind a daughter
Both Sang and Nour worked together managing the remaining library in the world on the basement floor.
She started working there when she was young, having just given birth to her daughter, Nour's mom. 
It was the only place she could find that would allow her to work while also taking care of a baby
Sang spent long days inside, maintaining archives with no windows, no sounds, no people. Just books and her baby.
Ironically, Sang never learned how to read. As long as she could recognize the letters and numbers on their spine, she could put and pull them from the shelves. 
What troubled Sang the most was that her youth, her wavering potential, was tightening into a single strand. What felt like a sacrifice was chronically a surrender. 
But Nour's mother grew up among books that she would open and read with a more resolved occupation. Eventually reading led her to draw upon invented worlds of her own. Enchanted with stories and descriptions of the world, she commited herself first and lastly to knowledge. Somewhere in-between, Nour came along.
Niether Sang nor Nour has heard from her since.
To Sang, the library, symbolized an oppressive, merciless force in her life. One which took all things away from her. 
But just two years ago, their boss came down in the company with a journalist. A camera strung around their neck
The journalist was writing an article about the library and asked to get a photo of Sang posed, reading a book.
For the first time, Sang was asked to pull a book from the shelf with the intent on reading it. A flash of annoyance rumbled in her stomach. Did they not know Sang had never opened up a book in her life? What business was it of Sang's to be pictured reading a book. Were they patronizing her illiteracy?
 And then!...something frantic...rooted in secret and harnessed to a butterfly emerged to her despair. Sang was almost frothing from all of her crevices. She never noticed how chapped her lips were. Or how the crust gaining mass beween her eyelids dangled from her wrinkled skin folds and obscured her vision. And best of all, she trembled in heat and ice as if an old song came back to fill the room of an old memory. It was frightening and sensational. Yes! Yes, of course she would be in the photo!
 Sang had never been photographed before. An invitation - not even a window, ever presented itself to Sang. In a fraction of a measured moment, her anxiety translated into enthused excess. Yes! Yes, of course. But wait, which book? 
Which book should be seized forever in time with her. Sang surely did not want to spoil the opportunity without involving herself in the details. She had a responsibility to herself and to anyone who saw the photo afterall. Do I choose a classic? Something everyone learns to be true. Security, tradition, assurance? Or something new? Bold, provoking, forward-gazing?"
She scanned the shelves with a slow burning determination. There. A familiar spine. Sang pulled the book from the collection and the row exhaled from decompression.
With the book opened flat between her hands, her eyes trailed across the rows of incomprehensible words while she posed for the camera.
Crank, Click, Flash
Crank, Click, Flash
The article was published in the national newspaper and the photo of Sang reading along with it.
Ever since, a copy of the article has been framed and hangs on their kitchen wall. Sang now expresses the importance of books zealously, feeling a great deal of responsibility.
"Books...yes...they liberate us from ourselves. They contain and share knowledge about the rest of the world, It's a good thing you pick up after your mother when it comes to reading. But please, do not abandon me" 
The idea of abandoning her grandmother made Nour feel both shame and disgust. Afterall, they relied on each other all her life. 
She took great pleasure in riding the bus to and from the library with Sang. 
Nour found meaning in light chatter and song with her grandma between bookshelves. 
On weekends, they would sit on their balcony overlooking the bustling city below them as Nour invented aloud stories until Sang fell asleep, always with a cigarette fuming and shrinking between her lips.
Nour's life consisted of Sang, the library, and apartment 562. Her life contained between these three anchors made life stable, plentiful.
For Sang, however, she lived with a deeper grief which she would displace with an intense appetite
Sang suffered from insomnia. The thoughts in her mind running like mismatched gears crunching into each other from an unmanagable clatter
She wanders the streets at night, sitting down at a table full of strangers also riddled with insomnia, gambling the remaining money from their pockets
Other nights, she spent drinking cheap, strong liquor and indulging on bowls and bowls of salty, instant noodles from the gas station
She shuffled her feet, withdrawn. Imagining she was carrying the ambiguous weight of the world. 
She often daydreamed of her own annhiliation. Was her purpose written somewhere by someone? To live a life in lamentation required a great deal of effort. When will my turn come? When will my place be known so surely that my heart could not beat so loudly in its never-ending tantrum?
As she crossed paths with a gutter plenished from the rainfall earlier that day, something in the metallic, black puddles swam. She heard it first, and saw it's traces as she locked her eyes in its direction  
She stopped her shuffling and held her breath. Her vision attracted fiercly to a consuming curiosity
She walked closer to the puddle whose ripples grew larger and more distant. She adjusted her eyes to the new found darkness.
She saw herself, old, round, and both figuratively and literally, pointless. But beyond her reflection, what she saw was something she had never seen in her waking life
It was a creature the size of a frog she would recognize from the covers of biology textbooks. Yet its form was sharp, like a turtle. She wondered if she had ever seen an insect so casually submerged into a body of water. 
Sang took a step towards and suddenly, the creature kicked its legs like a frog and 
Sang's stomach began to balloon
Self-conscious, she would make comments about her appearance
But Nour would place her head on Sang's lap and give kisses to her grandma's belly like it was a growing child.
One morning, getting onto the bus, Sang collapses towards the pavement and goes unconscious
"You seem to have a history of untreated hepatitis C. We have run some tests, and your kidney is failing. You have advanced Cirrosis and unless you get treatment soon, your condition will be fatal. For now, we can empty the fluids accumulating in your stomach from the liver damage but it's only a temporary fix"
For 5 nights, Sang shut herself in her room. For 5 nights, Nour laid beside her, holding her grandma as she wept.
Curled into herself, Ssang cursed her failing body. The flurry of moments 
The next morning, Nour took a trip to the doctor's office again
"Her old age makes her unqualified for a transplant. But Hepatitis C is curable now." 
The price for treatment was a thousand times more than what Nour and Sang combined could afford
If you can't find the money for treatment, may I suggest some life transplant alternatives that are much more affordable? We will schedule a consultation with the company. Bring your grandma in tomorrow.
For the first time, Nour realized that the cycles of everyday had an endpoint and its looming presence swarmed her with an intolerable anxiety. 
We offer services to move human consciousness from the doomed, earthly body to a virtual one. For a flat fee, we replicate 65% of the patient's physical, real-life. We then transfer over the human consciousness, memories, thoughts, and behaviors to a customized system based on several interviews to map how the patient's mind processes information and represents this system as an avatar. Depending on the payment plan you choose to move forward with, we can create new memories and tendencies for a more custom and fulfilling life
Of course, the first question patients and their loved ones have is does it actually work
Though we make no guaranteed claims that the patient will successfully transfer over a controllable and same consciousness as the one they have now, here are some testimonies from those who went through with the procedure
"Life is not only the same as before, but better" "Living forever used to be a fantasy, now we get to take part of making history" "Out of all the life transplanting services I've come across, company X provides high fidelity simulations and still aims to be affordable!" 
Rest assured that even if consciousness is not achieved in the virtual, we will have successfully cloned your experiences and can expand your story so that you may be at least remembered